everybody RC here from d'town TV and
about RC calm wanted to show you a quick
thing to be able to keep in mind when
you're processing images for 2012 if
you're a lightroom user you want to go
into the library module and inside of
here you'll see a panel called metadata
this is where you would normally put in
any kind of metadata and information for
the images that you're working with
there's a preset section here at the
bottom click on the drop-down and select
edit presets from the list now if you
have any presets that are already been
done let's say for example your 2011
preset you can always just select that
from the drop-down list and use that as
a foundation for whatever new preset
you're going to make obviously in this
case all I want to be able to do is
change the 2011 from twenty eleven to
twenty twelve so I'm going to change
that one two or two now resist the urge
to click on done here because what's
going to happen is if you click on done
and you save it's going to save the 2012
as the preset for the 2011 copyright
once you make your change here you need
to click on the drop down and under the
drop-down select save current settings
is a new preset once you have that there
it'll bring up a new pop-up and you can
go ahead and call this 2012 copyright
click on create click on done and now
anytime that you want to apply that you
just click on the drop down here select
2012 copyright you also have the option
to be able to kind of edit your presets
and go inside of here select one of the
presets and then once you have it
selected you can click on delete preset
so it's a very backwards way for you to
be able to do that but all you have to
do is go to edit select one and then
once it's selected then you can click on
the delete preset so but that's how you
want to delete any clear words if you
wanted to be able to get rid of any
extraneous ones I should only keep 2011
and 2012 for me
now if you're not a lightroom user and
your bridge user wish I added to that
there I've navigated to the desktop and
have a sample image here and I want to
be able to append that information so
I'm going to go to the tools and under
tools I can append met it at it I
already have a 2011 copyright but what I
want to do is I want to create a new
template so under the Tools menu I'll go
ahead and select create metadata
template this is pulling some
information that I already had in the
image so you may or may not see
information here what you can do is
click on this fly out and you can append
the metadata from your previous
copyright by doing that it will fill out
some of these fields for you and all we
need to do at this point is just go back
over here and add some information so in
this case under the copyright notice i'm
going to type in 2012 or sequence of see
only that i'm going to say email me for
licensing
everything else is okay once that's done
I'm going to go back over here to the
top and I'm going to type in 2012
copyright now if I want to be able to
append this copyright I can just go
ahead and go to tools append to metadata
and 2012 copyright now the other thing
that I would change the last thing is I
tend to use the digital mark watermarks
and a lot of the times i use them as an
action so the watermark already has a
specific copyright year set up for me I
want to make sure that i have that
updated as well so in this case I'm just
going to go ahead and open up a sample
image you'll notice that right here
under my actions panel I have the did
you are the digital mark water
markiplier set up and all that action
does is it does a file open and then
from here it'll go ahead and do this
that'll go to filter did your mark I'm
going to convert this let's make this an
8-bit image it'll go to filter it will
go to digimarc in the middle embedded
watermark that's what this is doing
right here it converts to 8-bit and then
it embeds this watermark with a
copyright year 2011 so since I've
already converted the step that I need
to replace is this one right here so
what I would do is I'll just go over
here to this one section open this
action and under the convert mode after
the convert just hit the record button
then go to filter did your mark embed
the watermark in this case I'm going to
embed 2012 increase my watermark
durability click OK
it's going to embed that watermark there
once that's done I'm going to have to
duplicate steps right so it looks like
it's set up for 2012 click OK I don't
need to change that now watch this one
of them is 2012 one of them is 2011 I'm
just going to hit stop here and I'm
going to grab my 2011 step and I'm going
to drag it into the trash so now I'm
ready to be able to work with these
watermarks now if you're not familiar
with digimarc make sure that you go to
digimarc calm and take a look at their
watermarking service right I'm a big big
fan of what it is they do from here you
have the option to be able to take a
look at images and embedding stuff for
your images so you have this digital
mark for images section you click on
this and that's the service that i tend
to use for digitally watermarking my
images so make sure you take a look at
that right if you zoom in here you'll
notice no watermark you can't see it but
there's a watermark in it and I can
search for that so that's pretty much it
now that'll get you to set up for 2012
if you want to follow along anything
else that I'm doing make sure you go to
g plus RC calm